How would you say I don't want the door to close on me?
So what was to close
Serrar.
And the door?
La puerta.
Which is related to ports, of course.
You stress down on the O of ports.
And you get puerto, puerto is put, and you change the O to an A and you get puerta, do.
So I don't want the door to close on me
No quiero la puerta.
Oh, I don't want that the door closes on me.
Exactly.
No quiero que la puerta se me cierre.
Very good.
After quiero que, no quiero que, we're using the mood tense.
No quiero que la puerta se me cierre.
How do you say again or another time?
Otro ve otra vez.
Good.
I don't want the door to close on me again.
No quiero que la puerta
Good.
What was the verb to return or to come back?
And it's related to revolve.
Volver.
Volver, good.
Instead of saying otra vez, another way of saying again in Spanish
is to use volver.
So, for example, it closes again, we can say vuelve a serrarse
It returns to close.
Why do we have a here?
Welve a serrarse?
Because it's a verb of movement
Good.
So how would you say I don't want the door to close again with volver?
How would it be?
So let's take it from the beginning.
I don't want that
No quiero que the door returns.
La puerta vuelva to close itself.
A cerrarse.
Good.
No quiero que la puerta vuelva a cerrarse.
O no quiero que vuelva a cerrarse la puerta.
So volvera can be used like again and it's very common in Spanish.
You might hear it around.
So if you say I don't want it to happen again, for to happen you can use to pass.
What was to pass
Or if you don't remember you can make a guess here.
Pasar.
Or occur.
Okurir.
You can use that as well.
For happen.
Suceder.
Succession, Suseder, all of these mean to happen.
Pasar is probably easier and easier to remember.
So I don't want it to happen again.
I don't want it to return to happen.
No quiero que vuelva a pasar.
Good.
So we saw that we have the mood tense with which we are switching the vowel.
So we go from vuelve to vuelva to get the mood tense.
or we have serrar and we go from Sierra to Sierra to get the mood tense.
We only have mood tense
In the present and in the past.
It doesn't exist in the futures.
It used to, and there are a couple of words left behind in fixed expressions that still have this form.
But for all intents and purposes it doesn't exist anymore in Spanish, the future mood tense.
We have the present, which we've practiced and have a very good uh hold on, and the past mood tense.
Now the past mood tense is very easy to build.
We will always build it going from the they form of the point in the past.
And now that I've mentioned the point in the past, I should also mention that the mood tense for the past is the same for the line and the point.
There are not two different ones.
It counts for both
And we build it going from the point in the past for they.
So for example, if we take a verb like to speak, ablar, and they spoke
Is it a blaron?
Yes, a blaron.
So that's the first step to find the mood tense for the past is to go to the lay form.
For the point in the past, a blaron.
So you find a blaron and you change that last O to an A.
And what do you get?
Ablaran.
And that is your mood tense for they in the past.
Now from that we can work backwards.
to find the I, he, she, it, you formal version.
If we work backwards from Ablaran, what would we do to work backwards from Ablaran?
What would we get rid of?
The N applara.
Ablara.
And then we can make the U informal version.
Aplaras.
Good.
And we.
And the accent won't move.
Ablaramos.
Good, so that's your set.
We can do the same now with comer.
What was they eight?
The point in the past
Comieron.
Comieron, good.
So now give me the mood tense version of they ate.
Good we
And you informal.
So this is how we form our mood tense in the past.
We want to go from the they form.
So we use this pretty much in the same kind of situations that we use the present mood tense, just in the past, with a couple of situations that are specifically for past.
So for example, where kieroke necessitates the mood tense in the present, keliake, I want it that
Will necessitate the mood's tense in the past.
What is I wanted using the line in the past?
So now you could say something like I wanted them to eat with us.
I wanted that they ate with us and that
They ate, of course, will be in the mood tense.
I wanted that, they ate with us
Quería que comieran con nosotros.
Good.
And as we said, point in the past, line in the past, when it comes to the mood tense, it's the same.
I was hoping that he would call me.
I was hoping Esperava that he would call me.
So I was hoping that we don't say would
We use the past mood tense again.
I was hoping that he called me
Esperaba que me llamara.
Good.
So whilst in English we would say I was hoping that he would call me, in Spanish I was hoping that.
He called me and we use the past mood tense.
Esperaba que me llamara.
Good.
What was to need or to necessitate?
Necesitar.
Good.
How would you say we needed using the line in the past?
We needed, we were needing.
Necesitábamos.
Good.
How would you say we needed to speak with him?
We needed to speak with him.
Necesitábamos que why key we needed to speak Necesitábamos hablar with him
Con él.
Good.
So here we don't need the mood tense.
Necesitavamos hablar con él.
We needed to speak with him.
But if you were to say we needed that he speak with us, we needed that he spoke with us, then this that
This que is what most of the time in Spanish is alerting you that maybe you want to use the mood tense.
So we needed that.
He speak with us.
How is that
Necesitábamos que hablar con nosotros.
Very good.
Necesitábamos que hablara con nosotros.
What was to return?
And we said that we can also use this verb like again.
Volver.
So if I wanted to say I called you again, I could just say I returned to call you.
It's got nothing to do with actually returning, huh?
It's just a way of saying again.
So what is I returned from to return from volver?
Volva.
Go back to Kumer.
Volvi.
Good.
So I called you again, speaking informally.
Volvi a Yamarte.
Good.
Volvi a Yamarte to organize, in order to organize.
Para organizar.
Good.
So altogether I called you again in order to organize, speaking informally.
Volvi a llamarte para organizar.
Good.
So if we have para organizar, we don't need to worry about the mood tense.
And we can sometimes adjust our sentence putting two forms so that we can avoid finding the mood tense.
So you could say something like, volvi a llamarte para organizar, volvi a llamarte para organizar, I call you again in order to organize.
And then you don't need the mood tense.
But if you were to say, I called you again so that in order that
reorganized then there you would have to use the mood tense so how would that be I called you again informally still
So that para que we organized.
So it's the mood tense now in the past.
Very good, very good.
So you have to take a trip
through to find it and it's quite time consuming at the beginning.
But once you start practicing this past mood tense, of course it becomes much quicker to find these different forms
And like I said, you can even avoid the use of the mood tense.
Just
by saying para organizar in a structure like this one for example.
So we're seeing that
They are similar structures to the structures we practiced the mutants in the present with, just in the past